add proposal for xdp authz (#1027)
kmesh-net/kmesh: docs/proposal/layer4_authorization.md

- TBD

creation-date: 2024-05-28
---
## Support L4 authorization in workload mode

### Summary

> This article aims to explain how Kmesh achieves layer 4 authorization functionality in workload mode. For an introduction to the authentication features, please refer to:[Kmesh TCP Authorization](https://kmesh.net/en/docs/userguide/tcp_authorization/). Currently, Kmesh supports two authentication architectures. Packets are first processed through XDP authentication, and if that type is not supported, quintuple information is passed through a ring buffer for user-space authentication. The ultimate goal is to fully handle authentication in XDP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article aims to explain how Kmesh achieves layer 4 authorization functionality in dual-engine mode. For an introduction to the authentication features, please refer to:[Kmesh TCP Authorization](https://kmesh.net/en/docs/userguide/tcp_authorization/). Currently, Kmesh supports two authentication architectures. Packets are first processed through XDP authentication, and if that type is not supported, quintuple information is passed through a ring buffer for user-space authentication. The ultimate goal is to fully handle authentication in XDP.
```

And I think it's `authorization`, not `authentication`.

> ### Userspace authentication

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Userspace Authorization
```

   - 3.2: If the matched record shows `value=deny`, it alters the message flag, sends an RST message to the server, clears the corresponding `auth_map` record. If no record is matched, implying authorization is allowed, the message is passed through.
4. **client retry**: The client attempts to send another message, but because the server has closed the connection, the client receives a "reset by peer" signal and subsequently closes its own channel.

### Xdp authentication

#### Design detail

![l4_authz_xdp](pics/kmesh_l4_authorization_xdp.svg#pic_center)

#### Map definition

map_of_wl_policy: records the policies that are configured for the workload.

> map_of_authz: records the authz rules of policies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
map_of_authz: records the authz policies by its resource name.
```

kmesh_tc_info_map: store the variable that xdp_auth needs to pass during the tail call
```.c
struct {
    __uint(type, BPF_MAP_TYPE_HASH);
    __uint(key_size, sizeof(__u32));
    __uint(value_size, sizeof(wl_policies_v));
    __uint(map_flags, BPF_F_NO_PREALLOC);
    __uint(max_entries, MAP_SIZE_OF_AUTH_POLICY);

> } map_of_wl_policy SEC(".maps");

Reviewer 3: map name need a prefix: `kmesh_`

} kmesh_tc_args SEC(".maps");
```

#### Processing logic

![l4_authz_xdp](pics/kmesh_xdp_authz.jpg#pic_center)

In the implementation of XDP authentication, due to the limitation of eBPF verifier on the number of bytes, we need to use eBPF's tailcall mechanism to implement the entire process of XDP authentication. The whole process is shown in the figure above:
First, the program entry is xdp_authz. In this eBPF program, the starting address of the authentication rule in memory will be written to kmesh_tc_args eBPF, and then tail call will be made to the policy_check eBPF program. This program will write the rule and necessary information to kmesh_tc_args eBPF, and then tail call will be made to the rule_check eBPF program to check the specific clause rules, which involves matching logic such as port_check and ip_check.

![l4_authz_xdp_process](pics/kmesh_l4_authorization_match_chain.svg#pic_center)

1. Message Parsing: When a packet enters the XDP processing logic on the server side, the tuple information of the packet is parsed. The corresponding workload instance is then located based on the destination IP, and the authentication rules configured on that workload are retrieved.

> 2. Rule Matching: As shown in the figure, XDP implements a matching chain logic. First, it determines whether to allow or deny the packet based on the port info, if the result is deny, the packet is intercepted, and the process ends. If the result is allow, the next matching logic (e.g., IP matching) is called using function call. This process is repeated until the last link in the chain. If the final result is allow, XDP\_PASS is returned, and the packet is forwarded through the kernel network stack to the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Rule Matching: As shown in the figure, XDP implements a matching chain logic. First, it determines whether to allow or deny the packet based on the port info, if the result is deny, the packet is intercepted, and the process ends. If the result is allow, the next matching logic (e.g., IP matching) is called using function call. This process is repeated until the last link in the chain. If the final result is allow, XDP_PASS is returned, and the packet is forwarded through the kernel network stack to the server.
```

4. **client retry**: The client attempts to send another message, but because the server has closed the connection, the client receives a "reset by peer" signal and subsequently closes its own channel.

### Xdp authentication

#### Design detail

![l4_authz_xdp](pics/kmesh_l4_authorization_xdp.svg#pic_center)

#### Map definition

map_of_wl_policy: records the policies that are configured for the workload.

map_of_authz: records the authz rules of policies.

kmesh_tc_info_map: store the variable that xdp_auth needs to pass during the tail call
```.c
struct {
    __uint(type, BPF_MAP_TYPE_HASH);
    __uint(key_size, sizeof(__u32));
    __uint(value_size, sizeof(wl_policies_v));
    __uint(map_flags, BPF_F_NO_PREALLOC);
    __uint(max_entries, MAP_SIZE_OF_AUTH_POLICY);
} map_of_wl_policy SEC(".maps");

struct {
    __uint(type, BPF_MAP_TYPE_HASH);
    __uint(key_size, sizeof(__u32));
    __uint(value_size, sizeof(Istio__Security__Authorization));
    __uint(map_flags, BPF_F_NO_PREALLOC);
    __uint(max_entries, MAP_SIZE_OF_AUTH_POLICY);

> } map_of_authz SEC(".maps");

Reviewer 2: This was renamed
